debezium/dbz#2279 Document the Databricks Zerobus Ingest sink (#7725)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/operations/debezium-server.adoc

|===

==== Databricks Zerobus Ingest

> https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/ingestion/zerobus[Databricks Zerobus Ingest] is a serverless, push-based ingestion service that writes records directly into Unity-Catalog-managed Delta tables, without an intermediate message broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {prodname} https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/ingestion/zerobus[Databricks Zerobus Ingest] is a serverless, push-based ingestion service that writes records directly writes change event records directly into Unity Catalog Delta tables
The service does not require an intermediate message broker.
```

> The sink authenticates with a Databricks service principal using OAuth and streams each change event to the managed Delta table whose name matches the event's destination (topic).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sink uses OAuth to authenticate with a Databricks service principal and streams each event record to the Delta table that corresponds to the event destination.
```

> The sink supports two delivery routes, selected by `debezium.sink.type`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sink uses one of the following routes to deliver event records, as specified by the xref:[zerobus-type[`debezium.sink.type`] property:
```

* `zerobus` &mdash; uses the Databricks Zerobus Java SDK over gRPC (recommended);

> * `zerobusrest` &mdash; uses the Zerobus REST API, one HTTP request per record, for environments without a persistent connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`zerobus`:: (recommended) Uses the Databricks Zerobus Java SDK over gRPC.
`zerobusrest`:: Uses the Zerobus REST API.
This methods accepts only one HTTP request per record. 
Select this option for environments that lack a persistent connection.
```
Use the description list formatting in place of applying special formatting to ul entries.

> A third option is to reuse the built-in `kafka` sink against the Zerobus Kafka-compatible endpoint; see the `ZerobusOAuthBearerLoginCallbackHandler` shipped in this module for the required `OAUTHBEARER` login handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A third option is to reuse the built-in `kafka` sink against the Zerobus Kafka-compatible endpoint.
For information about using this option, see the `ZerobusOAuthBearerLoginCallbackHandler` shipped in this module for the required `OAUTHBEARER` login handler.
```

> Because Zerobus accepts only JSON objects that match the target table schema, configure {prodname} to emit flat JSON (`ExtractNewRecordState` with `schemas.enable=false`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Zerobus accepts only JSON objects that match the target table schema, configure {prodname} to emit flat JSON by applying the {link-prefix}:{link-event-flattening}#new-record-state-extraction[`ExtractNewRecordState` SMT] with `schemas.enable=false`.
```

> Delivery is at-least-once, so deduplicate downstream (for example, using the source LSN carried in the record).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delivery uses an at-least-once guarantee. 
As a result, the sink might deliver the same record more than once. 
Configure downstream consumers to deduplicate records, for example, by using the source LSN that the record carries.
```

> The target table must be a Unity-Catalog-managed Delta table in the same region as the workspace, without Change Data Feed or column mapping, and the service principal needs `USE CATALOG`, `USE SCHEMA`, `SELECT` and `MODIFY` on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the service to write data to the target table, the following requirements apply:

* The target table must be a Unity Catalog-managed Delta table.
* The table must be in the same Databricks region as the workspace.
* Change Data Feed and column mapping must be disabled.
* The service principal must have the following permissions:
** `USE CATALOG`
** `USE SCHEMA`
** `SELECT`
** `MODIFY`
```

===== gRPC route (`zerobus`)

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[zerobus-type]]<<zerobus-type, `debezium.sink.type`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```
To remove ambiguity about the meaning of empty table cells, explicitly state that the property has no default value.

|Must be set to `zerobus`.

|[[zerobus-endpoint]]<<zerobus-endpoint, `debezium.sink.zerobus.endpoint`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```

|The Zerobus gRPC endpoint, for example `<workspace-id>.zerobus.<region>.cloud.databricks.com` (AWS) or `<workspace-id>.zerobus.<region>.azuredatabricks.net` (Azure).

|[[zerobus-workspace-url]]<<zerobus-workspace-url, `debezium.sink.zerobus.workspace.url`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```

|The Databricks workspace URL, for example `https://dbc-xxxx.cloud.databricks.com`.

|[[zerobus-client-id]]<<zerobus-client-id, `debezium.sink.zerobus.client.id`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```

|The OAuth client id (service principal application id).

|[[zerobus-client-secret]]<<zerobus-client-secret, `debezium.sink.zerobus.client.secret`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```

|The OAuth client secret for the service principal.

|[[zerobus-table]]<<zerobus-table, `debezium.sink.zerobus.table`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```

> |(Optional) A fully-qualified default target table (`catalog.schema.table`). When set, all events are written to this table; otherwise the mapped destination (topic) name is used as the fully-qualified table name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|(Optional) The fully-qualified name of the default target table (`catalog.schema.table`). 
When this option is set, all events are written to this table; otherwise the mapped destination (topic) name is used as the fully-qualified table name.
```
 per Debezium documentation standards, to improve readability of the AsciiDoc source, and to makes diffs easier to manage if content is updated in a future release, enter each sentence on its own line.

|[[zerobus-max-inflight]]<<zerobus-max-inflight, `debezium.sink.zerobus.max.inflight.records`>>
|`50000`
|Maximum number of un-acknowledged records per stream.

|[[zerobus-metrics-log-interval]]<<zerobus-metrics-log-interval, `debezium.sink.zerobus.metrics.log.interval`>>
|`0`

> |Emit a periodic `INFO` log line summarizing the sink metrics every N processed batches. `0` (the default) disables periodic logging; the metrics remain available over JMX regardless. See <<zerobus-monitoring, Monitoring>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the number of batches that the service processes before it emits a periodic `INFO` log line to summarize sink metrics.
Set the value to `0` to disable periodic logging.
This setting does not affect availability of metrics over JMX. 
For more information, see <<zerobus-monitoring, Monitoring>>.
```

|===

===== REST route (`zerobusrest`)

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[zerobusrest-type]]<<zerobusrest-type, `debezium.sink.type`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```

|Must be set to `zerobusrest`.

|[[zerobusrest-uri]]<<zerobusrest-uri, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.uri`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```

|The Zerobus REST base URI, for example `https://<workspace-id>.zerobus.<region>.cloud.databricks.com`.

|[[zerobusrest-workspace-url]]<<zerobusrest-workspace-url, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.workspace.url`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```

> |The Databricks workspace URL, used for OAuth and the `unity-catalog-endpoint` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The Databricks workspace URL.
The service uses this value for OAuth and in the `unity-catalog-endpoint` header.
```

|[[zerobusrest-workspace-id]]<<zerobusrest-workspace-id, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.workspace.id`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```

> |The numeric workspace id, used to build the Zerobus token audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The numeric workspace id, that the service uses to build the Zerobus token audience.
```

|[[zerobusrest-client-id]]<<zerobusrest-client-id, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.client.id`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```

|The OAuth client id (service principal application id).

|[[zerobusrest-client-secret]]<<zerobusrest-client-secret, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.client.secret`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```

|The OAuth client secret for the service principal.

|[[zerobusrest-table]]<<zerobusrest-table, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.table`>>

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No default value.
```

|(Optional) A fully-qualified default target table (`catalog.schema.table`). When not set, the mapped destination (topic) name is used.

|[[zerobusrest-metrics-log-interval]]<<zerobusrest-metrics-log-interval, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.metrics.log.interval`>>
|`0`

> |Emit a periodic `INFO` log line summarizing the sink metrics every N processed batches. `0` (the default) disables periodic logging; the metrics remain available over JMX regardless. See <<zerobus-monitoring, Monitoring>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the number of batches that the service processes before it emits a periodic `INFO` log line to summarize sink metrics.
Set the value to `0` to disable periodic logging.
This setting does not affect availability of metrics over JMX. 
For more information, see <<zerobus-monitoring, Monitoring>>.
```

|===

===== Data type mapping

> The sink normalizes each value from the Kafka Connect schema to the shape the target Delta column expects, based on the logical type name rather than the already-serialized JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sink normalizes each Kafka Connect schema value to a format that is compatible with the target Delta column, based on the logical type name, rather than on the serialized JSON representation.
```

This avoids the "invalid type" class of ingestion errors without requiring source-side `*.handling.mode` tuning.
Recommended Delta column types:

[cols="45%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Source / Debezium logical type
|Delta column type

|Integer, floating point, boolean, string
|`INT`/`BIGINT`, `DOUBLE`/`FLOAT`, `BOOLEAN`, `STRING`

|`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Decimal` (decimal / numeric / money)
|`DECIMAL(p,s)` &mdash; emitted as an exact string, locale-independent

|`io.debezium.time.Date` / Connect `Date`
|`DATE` (epoch days)

|`io.debezium.time.Timestamp` / `MicroTimestamp` / `NanoTimestamp` / Connect `Timestamp`
|`TIMESTAMP` or `TIMESTAMP_NTZ` (normalized to epoch micros)

|`io.debezium.time.ZonedTimestamp` (timestamp with time zone)
|`STRING` (ISO-8601 with offset)

|`io.debezium.time.Time` and other time-of-day types
|`BIGINT` (Zerobus does not currently ingest the Delta `TIME` type)

|Bytes / `io.debezium.data.Bits` (binary, blob, varbinary)

> |`BINARY` (base64 on the wire)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BINARY (encoded as Base64)
```

|`io.debezium.data.Json` (JSON / JSONB)
|`VARIANT`

|Homogeneous array
|`ARRAY<T>`

|===

[[zerobus-monitoring]]
===== Monitoring

Both routes expose sink metrics over JMX, under the object name `debezium.zerobus:type=connector-metrics,context=sink,server=<route>,task=0`, where `<route>` is `grpc` or `rest`.
This mirrors how the JDBC sink connector and {prodname} source connectors expose their metrics, so the same JMX tooling (for example JConsole, `jmxterm`, or a Prometheus JMX exporter) works out of the box.

> In addition, setting `debezium.sink.zerobus[rest].metrics.log.interval` to a positive value emits a periodic `INFO` log line with the same values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use JMX metrics and connector log output to monitor the operational status and performance of the Debezium DataBricks Zero sink.

The {prodname} DataBricks Zero sink supports the following delivery routes: zerobus (gRPC) and zerobusrest (REST). 
Both routes expose sink metrics over JMX under the object name debezium.zerobus:type=connector-metrics,context=sink,server=<route>,task=0, where <route> is `grpc` for the `zerobus` route or `rest` for the `zerobusrest` route. 
The metrics use the same JMX exposure model as the JDBC sink connector and {prodname} source connectors, enabling you to use existing JMX monitoring tools such as JConsole, jmxterm, and Prometheus JMX Exporter without additional configuration. 
You can also configure periodic metric logging by setting xref:debezium.sink.zerobus.metrics.log.interval[`debezium.sink.zerobus.metrics.log.interval`] or xref:zerobusrest-metrics-log-interval[`debezium.sink.zerobusrest.metrics.log.interval`] to a positive value. 
After you enable either of these options, at the specified interval the connector writes an `INFO` log message that contains the same metric values that are available through JMX.
```
The suggestedf change prefixes an introductory sentence to provide a short description that helps readers to understand the purpose of the topic. It also adds a sentence to provide context that explicitly reconnects to the earlier discussion about delivery route names (L2417).

The following attributes are available:

[cols="40%a,60%a",options="header"]
|===
|Attribute
|Description

|`TotalRecordsIngested`
|Total number of change events forwarded to Zerobus, across all tables.

|`TotalInserts` / `TotalUpdates` / `TotalDeletes` / `TotalReads`

> |Ingested events split by operation (`c` / `u` / `d`, and snapshot reads `r`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|These metrics report the number of ingested events sorted by operation type (`c` / `u` / `d`, and snapshot reads `r`).
```

|`TotalRecordsSkipped`

> |Records skipped without being forwarded (tombstones / null payloads, and events whose destination is not a fully-qualified `catalog.schema.table`, such as schema-history or DDL events).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Number of records skipped without being forwarded (tombstones / null payloads, and events whose destination is not a fully-qualified `catalog.schema.table`, such as schema-history or DDL events).
```

|`TotalErrors`

> |Ingestion or flush failures observed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Number of ingestion or flush failures observed.
```

|`TotalFlushes`

> |Stream flushes performed (gRPC route); successful record POSTs (REST route), which are the durability boundary there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The metric counts stream flush operations when using the gRPC route, or successful record POST requests when using the REST route. 
For the REST route, a successful POST indicates that the record has been durably accepted and is no longer at risk of loss due to a service failure.
```
It's unclear whether the metric represents the combined total from both routes. Should the first sentence use `and` vs. `or`?
Based on the presence of the `Route` metric (L2500), I suppose that it's one or the other.

Author: You supposed correctly — it's one or the other, never combined. Only one route is active per Debezium Server instance (selected by `debezium.sink.type`), so the metric counts stream flushes on the gRPC (`zerobus`) route **or** successful record POSTs on the REST (`zerobusrest`) route, and the `Route` attribute tells you which one. The `or` wording in the suggestion is correct.

|`MilliSecondsBehindSource`

> |Pipeline freshness: `now - source.ts_ms` of the most recently ingested event, in milliseconds. `-1` until the first event with a source timestamp is ingested; approaches `0` when the sink is caught up with the source. This is the primary signal in a CDC-to-lakehouse deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Indicates the age, in milliseconds, of the most recently processed event.
The value is calculated as `current time - source.ts_ms`.
The metric reports the value  `-1 ` until after the Delta table ingests an event that contains a source timestamp.
A values near `0` indicates that the sink is catching up to, or is synchronized with, the source. 

This metric is a primary indicator of pipeline freshness in a CDC-to-lakehouse deployment.
```

|`LastFlushDurationMillis` / `MaxFlushDurationMillis`

> |Duration of the most recent, and the longest, flush (gRPC) or record POST (REST).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|LastFlushDurationMillis
|Duration of the most recent flush (gRPC) or record POST (REST) operation.

|MaxFlushDurationMillis
|Longest duration of any flush (gRPC) or record POST (REST) operation since the task started.
```
To assist readers who might scan the table to find a specific metric by name, separate the combined entries. 
You could apply the same change to the entry on L2569, although there all of the different metrics at least start with the same `Total*` string.

|`ActiveStreams`

> |Number of currently open Zerobus streams (one per target table); always `0` for the REST route, which opens no persistent streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Number of currently open Zerobus streams (one per target table).
For the REST route, which does not open persistent streams, this value is always `0`.
```

|`Route`
|The delivery route these metrics belong to (`grpc` or `rest`).

> 

Reviewer: For other sinks we include a section on `Injection points`. Does the Databricks sink expose any CDI injection points?

Author: Good question. No — the Zerobus sink doesn't expose any CDI injection points. Unlike the Kinesis/Pub/Sub sinks (which let you inject a custom client via `@CustomConsumerBuilder`), this sink instantiates the Zerobus SDK client directly and doesn't provide a customizable `StreamNameMapper` or client builder. So there's no `Injection points` section to add here. Happy to add one later if we expose extension hooks.

|===

==== Databricks Zerobus Ingest

The {prodname} https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/ingestion/zerobus[Databricks Zerobus Ingest] is a serverless, push-based ingestion service that writes change event records directly into Unity Catalog Delta tables.
The service does not require an intermediate message broker.
The sink uses OAuth to authenticate with a Databricks service principal and streams each event record to the Delta table that corresponds to the event destination.

> The sink uses one of the following routes to deliver event records, as specified by the `debezium.sink.type` property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sink uses one of the following routes to deliver event records, as specified by the xref:zerobus-type[`debezium.sink.type`] property:
```

`zerobus`:: (recommended) Uses the Databricks Zerobus Java SDK over gRPC.
`zerobusrest`:: Uses the Zerobus REST API.
This method accepts only one HTTP request per record.
Select this option for environments that lack a persistent connection.

A third option is to reuse the built-in `kafka` sink against the Zerobus Kafka-compatible endpoint.

> For information about using this option, see the `ZerobusOAuthBearerLoginCallbackHandler` shipped in this module for the required `OAUTHBEARER` login handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Kafka sink with the Zerobus Kafka-compatible endpoint, configure the Kafka SASL/OAUTHBEARER authentication and set the `sasl.login.callback.handler.class` to `io.debezium.server.databricks.zerobus.ZerobusOAuthBearerLoginCallbackHandler`.
For the complete list of required OAuth properties, see the source code for the `ZerobusOAuthBearerLoginCallbackHandler` for {prodname} Server.
```
The original draft leaves some room for interpretation, so I took a stab at providing some detail. Ideally we provide more guidance than to see the handler code shipped in this module. Maybe not now, but certainly for a future iteration.

Admittedly, I'm out of my depth here, but I hope that I've provided enough in the way of signposts that you can see where I'm trying to go. If this looks anything like correct, it might eventually be worth developing it into its own procedure topic, which we could link to from the present context.

Author: Thanks — your version reads much better, applied. And you signposted it exactly right: the Kafka route is fully configurable, so we *can* document the OAuth properties instead of pointing at the handler source. The JAAS entry accepts these options: `workspaceUrl`, `workspaceId` (or an explicit `audience`), `clientId`, `clientSecret` (and optionally `tokenEndpoint` / a static `token`). For now I've kept your wording (which points at the handler); I fully agree it's worth promoting this into its own procedure topic with the full property list in a future iteration — I'll open a follow-up so it isn't lost. Not out of your depth at all; the direction is spot on. 🙏

|No default value.
|The OAuth client id (service principal application id).

|[[zerobusrest-client-secret]]<<zerobusrest-client-secret, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.client.secret`>>
|No default value.
|The OAuth client secret for the service principal.

|[[zerobusrest-table]]<<zerobusrest-table, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.table`>>
|No default value.
|(Optional) A fully-qualified default target table (`catalog.schema.table`). When not set, the mapped destination (topic) name is used.

|[[zerobusrest-metrics-log-interval]]<<zerobusrest-metrics-log-interval, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.metrics.log.interval`>>
|`0`
|Specifies the number of batches that the service processes before it emits a periodic `INFO` log line to summarize sink metrics.
Set the value to `0` to disable periodic logging.
This setting does not affect availability of metrics over JMX.
For more information, see <<zerobus-monitoring, Monitoring>>.

|===

===== Data type mapping

The sink normalizes each Kafka Connect schema value to a format that is compatible with the target Delta column, based on the logical type name, rather than on the serialized JSON representation.

> This avoids the "invalid type" class of ingestion errors without requiring source-side `*.handling.mode` tuning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the sink maps data types, rather than converting values based on their serialized JSON representation, it uses Kafka Connect logical type information to normalize values to a format that is compatible with the target Delta column. 
By basing conversions on logical types rather than on the JSON encoding of values, the sink can accommodate different source-side serialization settings and avoid invalid-type ingestion errors without requiring users to tune source-side *.handling.mode options.
```

|`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Decimal` (decimal / numeric / money)
|`DECIMAL(p,s)` &mdash; emitted as an exact string, locale-independent

|`io.debezium.time.Date` / Connect `Date`
|`DATE` (epoch days)

|`io.debezium.time.Timestamp` / `MicroTimestamp` / `NanoTimestamp` / Connect `Timestamp`
|`TIMESTAMP` or `TIMESTAMP_NTZ` (normalized to epoch micros)

|`io.debezium.time.ZonedTimestamp` (timestamp with time zone)
|`STRING` (ISO-8601 with offset)

|`io.debezium.time.Time` and other time-of-day types
|`BIGINT` (Zerobus does not currently ingest the Delta `TIME` type)

|Bytes / `io.debezium.data.Bits` (binary, blob, varbinary)
BINARY (encoded as Base64)

|`io.debezium.data.Json` (JSON / JSONB)
|`VARIANT`

|Homogeneous array
|`ARRAY<T>`

|===

[[zerobus-monitoring]]
===== Monitoring

Both routes expose sink metrics over JMX, under the object name `debezium.zerobus:type=connector-metrics,context=sink,server=<route>,task=0`, where `<route>` is `grpc` or `rest`.
This mirrors how the JDBC sink connector and {prodname} source connectors expose their metrics, so the same JMX tooling (for example JConsole, `jmxterm`, or a Prometheus JMX exporter) works out of the box.

> You can use JMX metrics and connector log output to monitor the operational status and performance of the Debezium DataBricks Zero sink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Remove this paragraph. It duplicates the information on LL2582-2584.

The {prodname} DataBricks Zero sink supports the following delivery routes: zerobus (gRPC) and zerobusrest (REST).
Both routes expose sink metrics over JMX under the object name debezium.zerobus:type=connector-metrics,context=sink,server=<route>,task=0, where <route> is `grpc` for the `zerobus` route or `rest` for the `zerobusrest` route.
The metrics use the same JMX exposure model as the JDBC sink connector and {prodname} source connectors, enabling you to use existing JMX monitoring tools such as JConsole, jmxterm, and Prometheus JMX Exporter without additional configuration.

> You can also configure periodic metric logging by setting <<zerobus-metrics-log-interval, `debezium.sink.zerobus.metrics.log.interval`>> or <<zerobusrest-metrics-log-interval, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.metrics.log.interval`>> to a positive value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can automate periodic metric logging by setting <<zerobus-metrics-log-interval, `debezium.sink.zerobus.metrics.log.interval`>> or <<zerobusrest-metrics-log-interval, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.metrics.log.interval`>> to a positive value.
```

To use this route, set `debezium.sink.type` to `kafka` and configure the following producer properties:

[cols="55%a,45%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Description

|`debezium.sink.kafka.producer.bootstrap.servers`
|The Zerobus Kafka endpoint, for example `<workspace-id>.zerobus.<region>.cloud.databricks.com:9092`.

|`debezium.sink.kafka.producer.security.protocol`
|Must be set to `SASL_SSL`.

|`debezium.sink.kafka.producer.sasl.mechanism`
|Must be set to `OAUTHBEARER`.

|`debezium.sink.kafka.producer.sasl.login.callback.handler.class`
|Must be set to `io.debezium.server.databricks.zerobus.ZerobusOAuthBearerLoginCallbackHandler`.

|`debezium.sink.kafka.producer.sasl.jaas.config`
|The JAAS configuration for the `OAuthBearerLoginModule`, which supplies the OAuth options that the login callback handler reads.
|===

The `sasl.jaas.config` entry accepts the following options:

[cols="25%a,20%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Required
|Description

|`clientId`
|Yes
|The OAuth client id (service principal application id).

|`clientSecret`
|Yes
|The OAuth client secret for the service principal.

|`workspaceUrl`

> |Yes, unless `tokenEndpoint` is set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Yes, unless `tokenEndpoint` is set.
```

|The Databricks workspace URL.
The token endpoint is derived as `<workspaceUrl>/oidc/v1/token`.

|`workspaceId`

> |Yes, unless `audience` is set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Yes, unless `audience` is set.
```

|The numeric workspace id.
The token audience is derived as `api://databricks/workspaces/<workspaceId>/zerobusDirectWriteApi`.

|`tables`
|Yes
|A comma-separated list of fully-qualified target tables (`catalog.schema.table`).
The handler uses this list to build the OAuth Rich Authorization Requests (RFC 9396) authorization details, which grant the token the Unity Catalog privileges that Zerobus requires for the target tables.

|`tokenEndpoint`
|No
|Overrides the OIDC token endpoint that is otherwise derived from `workspaceUrl`.

|`audience`
|No
|Overrides the token audience that is otherwise derived from `workspaceId`.

|`token`
|No
|A bearer token (for example, a personal access token) to use verbatim.

> When set, the handler skips the OAuth exchange and uses this token directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|A bearer token, such as a personal access token, to use without modification.
If you set this option, the handler skips the OAuth exchange and uses this token directly.
```

debezium.sink.kafka.producer.bootstrap.servers=<workspace-id>.zerobus.<region>.cloud.databricks.com:9092
debezium.sink.kafka.producer.security.protocol=SASL_SSL
debezium.sink.kafka.producer.sasl.mechanism=OAUTHBEARER
debezium.sink.kafka.producer.sasl.login.callback.handler.class=io.debezium.server.databricks.zerobus.ZerobusOAuthBearerLoginCallbackHandler
debezium.sink.kafka.producer.sasl.jaas.config=org.apache.kafka.common.security.oauthbearer.OAuthBearerLoginModule required \
    workspaceUrl="https://<workspace-host>" \
    workspaceId="<workspace-id>" \
    clientId="<client-id>" \
    clientSecret="<client-secret>" \
    tables="<catalog>.<schema>.<table>" ;
----

===== Data type mapping

When the sink maps data types, rather than converting values based on their serialized JSON representation, it uses Kafka Connect logical type information to normalize values to a format that is compatible with the target Delta column.
By basing conversions on logical types rather than on the JSON encoding of values, the sink can accommodate different source-side serialization settings and avoid invalid-type ingestion errors without requiring users to tune source-side *.handling.mode options.

> Recommended Delta column types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following table shows mappings between {prodname} logical types and Delta column types:
```
In general, we avoid explicitly recommending configurations in the docs, because doing overstates the level of validation that supports the recommendation, and could require Engineering, support, and product management to defend or maintain guidance that was never formally established.

It's ok to document a specific configuration, and that in itself represents an implicit recommendation, but if we later productize this feature, explicit recommendations can be problematic.

Rather than presenting a universal recommendation, it's better to explain the benefit of applying a particular configuration and then leting the reader evaluate whether it matters.

[cols="45%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===

> |Source / Debezium logical type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Source / {prodname} logical type
```

|===

==== Databricks Zerobus Ingest

The {prodname} https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/ingestion/zerobus[Databricks Zerobus Ingest] is a serverless, push-based ingestion service that writes change event records directly into Unity Catalog Delta tables.
The service does not require an intermediate message broker.
The sink uses OAuth to authenticate with a Databricks service principal and streams each event record to the Delta table that corresponds to the event destination.

The sink uses one of the following routes to deliver event records, as specified by the xref:zerobus-type[`debezium.sink.type`] property:

`zerobus`:: (recommended) Uses the Databricks Zerobus Java SDK over gRPC.
`zerobusrest`:: Uses the Zerobus REST API.
This method accepts only one HTTP request per record.
Select this option for environments that lack a persistent connection.

> A third option is to reuse the built-in `kafka` sink against the Zerobus Kafka-compatible endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kafka`:: Reuses the built-in Kafka sink against the Zerobus Kafka-compatible endpoint.
```

|Apply the {link-prefix}:{link-event-flattening}#new-record-state-extraction[`ExtractNewRecordState` SMT] so that the emitted record is a flat row rather than a change event envelope.
Optionally apply the `RegexRouter` SMT to map the topic name to the fully-qualified name of the target table.

|`debezium.format.value.schemas.enable`
|Must be set to `false`.
Otherwise, the JSON converter wraps each value in a `{"schema": ..., "payload": ...}` envelope, which does not match the table schema.

|`debezium.source.decimal.handling.mode`
|Must be set to `string`.
Zerobus rejects a JSON number for a `DECIMAL` column, and the default `precise` mode emits a Base64-encoded byte array.
The `string` mode emits the exact decimal value as a JSON string, which Zerobus accepts.

|`debezium.source.time.precision.mode`
|Use the default `adaptive` mode, which emits a `TIMESTAMP` column as the number of microseconds since the epoch.
Zerobus rejects an ISO-8601 string for a `TIMESTAMP` column, and it interprets a numeric value as microseconds.
Because of the latter, the `connect` mode, which emits milliseconds, silently stores an incorrect instant.
|===

====== Tuning throughput on the Kafka route

> Throughput on this route is bound by network round trips rather than by local processing, because Zerobus acknowledges each request from the region in which the workspace runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughput on the Kafka route is bound by network round trips rather than by local processing, because Zerobus acknowledges each request from the region in which the workspace runs.
```

> With the default producer settings, the number of records that the service ingests per second is approximately the number of in-flight requests, multiplied by the number of records per request, and divided by the request latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the default producer settings are active, the number of records that the service ingests per second is approximately equal to the number of in-flight requests, multiplied by the number of records per request, and divided by the request latency.
```

As a result, a pipeline that produces one record at a time spends most of its time waiting.

> The following producer properties control that behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can modify the default behavior by configuring the producer properties in the following table.
```

> Because the optimal values depend on the latency between the service and the workspace, treat the values in the following table as a starting point, and then measure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optimal values for these settings depend on the latency between the service and the workspace.
Use the values in the table as starting points and adjust them based on latency data.
```

To find the request latency of a running pipeline, read the `request_latency_avg` attribute of the standard `kafka.producer:type=producer-metrics` MBean, and to confirm that batching takes effect, read `records_per_request_avg`.

[cols="40%a,15%a,45%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Suggested value
|Description

|`debezium.sink.kafka.producer.linger.ms`
|`100`

> |Specifies how long the producer waits to accumulate records before it sends a request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies how long the producer waits to send requests.
Requests accumulate until the configured interval passes.
```

> The default value, `0`, sends each record as soon as possible, so every request pays a full round trip to carry very few records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Remove this sentence. Based on the default specified for the property the `0` value appears to be incorrect, and the balance of the sentence is covered in other portions of the description.

> Because this setting delays a record by up to the configured duration, it trades latency for throughput.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the value to `0` to remove the delay interval so that the producer sends each request as soon as possible.
When the property is  set to `0`, the producer sends requests even if they contain a small number of records.
Because each request incurs the overhead of a full network round trip, when the producer has a high number of records to process, a `0` value can result in lower throughput .

Set a value greater than `0` if you want the producer to wait between sending requests.
Setting a value greater than `0` can improve throughput, because the producer batches more records per request.
```

> On a change data capture pipeline, in which a round trip to the workspace already dominates, the added delay is typically negligible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a change data capture pipeline, the end-to-end latency is typically much greater than the delay introduced by this setting, so the additional wait is usually negligible.
```

|`debezium.sink.kafka.producer.batch.size`
|`1048576`
|Specifies the maximum size, in bytes, of a single batch.

> Set this option together with `linger.ms`: at the default value of `16384`, a batch of even moderately sized change events fills, and is therefore sent, before the configured wait elapses, which limits the effect of the preceding setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `linger.ms` is set, set this option if you want the producer to send batches after their size reaches the configured limit.
This setting overrides the `linger.ms` setting to allow the producer to send batches before the end of the configured wait time. 
```
I'm not sure what default this refers to. The default for `batch.size` is given as `1048576` and `linger.ms` mentions a default of `100`, and I don't see this value mentioned elsewhere.

> Zerobus rejects a record that is larger than 10 MB, so a batch size of 1 MB leaves ample headroom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zerobus rejects records larger than 10 MB, so a batch size of 1 MB leaves ample headroom.
```

|`debezium.sink.kafka.producer.max.in.flight.requests.per.connection`
|`10`
|Specifies how many requests can be awaiting a response at the same time, which sets how much of the round-trip latency the producer can overlap.

A value greater than `5` is permitted here only because this route requires `enable.idempotence=false`.
Increasing the value relaxes the ordering of records that are retried.

> Zerobus is partitionless and provides an at-least-once guarantee, so a pipeline on this route cannot depend on strict ordering in any case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`debezium.sink.kafka.producer.max.in.flight.requests.per.connection`
|`10`
|Specifies the maximum number of unacknowledged requests that the producer can send before it receives a response.
Increasing the value can improve throughput by allowing the producer to send additional requests before it receives acknowledgements from earlier requests.
However, increasing the value can also result in records being delivered out of order if requests are retried.

Zerobus is partitionless and provides an at-least-once delivery guarantee, so strict record ordering is not guaranteed regardless of how you configure this property.
```

I moved the sentence about values greater than `5` being permitted into a note that immediately follows the properties table. Given that we already list the default at 10, that should signal that the higher values are valid.  A note should satisfy experienced Kafka users who might question why the property documents a value greater than 5.

|===

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[NOTE]
====
In standard Kafka environments where idempotence is enabled, `max.in.flight.requests.per.connection` must not exceed `5`, because the idempotent producer only guarantees ordering and exactly-once semantics for up to five in-flight requests.
The Kafka route for the Databricks Zerobus Ingest sink requires `enable.idempotence=false`, so you can set this property to a value greater than `5`.
====

```

The following table shows mappings between {prodname} logical types and Delta column types:

[cols="45%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Source / {prodname} logical type
|Delta column type

|Integer, floating point, boolean, string
|`INT`/`BIGINT`, `DOUBLE`/`FLOAT`, `BOOLEAN`, `STRING`

|`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Decimal` (decimal / numeric / money)
|`DECIMAL(p,s)` &mdash; emitted as an exact string, locale-independent

|`io.debezium.time.Date` / Connect `Date`
|`DATE` (epoch days)

|`io.debezium.time.Timestamp` / `MicroTimestamp` / `NanoTimestamp` / Connect `Timestamp`
|`TIMESTAMP` or `TIMESTAMP_NTZ` (normalized to epoch micros)

|`io.debezium.time.ZonedTimestamp` (timestamp with time zone)
|`STRING` (ISO-8601 with offset)

|`io.debezium.time.Time` and other time-of-day types
|`BIGINT` (Zerobus does not currently ingest the Delta `TIME` type)

|Bytes / `io.debezium.data.Bits` (binary, blob, varbinary)
BINARY (encoded as Base64)

|`io.debezium.data.Json` (JSON / JSONB)
|`VARIANT`

|Homogeneous array
|`ARRAY<T>`

|===

[[zerobus-monitoring]]
===== Monitoring

> The {prodname} DataBricks Zero sink supports the following delivery routes: zerobus (gRPC), zerobusrest (REST), and the <<zerobus-kafka-route, Kafka route>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use JMX metrics and connector log output to monitor the operational status and performance of the Debezium DataBricks Zero sink.

The {prodname} DataBricks Zero sink supports the following delivery routes: zerobus (gRPC), zerobusrest (REST), and the <<zerobus-kafka-route, Kafka route>>.
```
I think that inserting this sentence before stepping out to provide the wider picture provides a useful introduction to this monitoring section. As indicated in my earlier comment, prefixing a topic with a lead-in introductory sentence or two helps to provide readers with a useful overview so that they understand the purpose of the topic and can assess whether they want to read more or move on.

The first record is always timed, so the gauges report a value even on a pipeline that produces few records.
All counters remain exact.
====
The standard `kafka.producer:type=producer-metrics` and `kafka.producer:type=producer-topic-metrics` MBeans remain available, and provide per-topic byte counts and request latencies that complement the sink metrics.

The following attributes are available:

[cols="40%a,60%a",options="header"]
|===
|Attribute
|Description

|`TotalRecordsIngested`
|Total number of change events forwarded to Zerobus, across all tables.

|`TotalInserts` / `TotalUpdates` / `TotalDeletes` / `TotalReads`
|These metrics report the number of ingested events sorted by operation type (`c` / `u` / `d`, and snapshot reads `r`).

|`TotalRecordsSkipped`
|Number of records skipped without being forwarded (tombstones / null payloads, and events whose destination is not a fully-qualified `catalog.schema.table`, such as schema-history or DDL events).
The value remains `0` on the Kafka route, which forwards every record that it receives.

|`TotalErrors`
|Number of ingestion or flush failures observed.

|`TotalFlushes`

> |The metric counts stream flush operations when using the gRPC route, successful record POST requests when using the REST route, or broker-acknowledged records when using the Kafka route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The metric counts one of the following operations, depending on the route configuration:

* Stream flush operations (gRPC route).
* Successful record POST requests (REST route). 
* Broker-acknowledged records (Kafka route).
 

```

|`json`
|Specifies the encoding of a record on the wire.
The `typed` payload mode writes `json`.
Currently the sink implements the `json` format only, and it reports an error at start-up if you set any other value.

|[[zerobus-max-inflight]]<<zerobus-max-inflight, `debezium.sink.zerobus.max.inflight.records`>>
|`50000`
|Maximum number of un-acknowledged records per stream.

|[[zerobus-max-open-streams]]<<zerobus-max-open-streams, `debezium.sink.zerobus.max.open.streams`>>
|`100`
|Maximum number of Zerobus streams that the sink keeps open at one time.
Zerobus binds one stream to one table, so a source that captures many tables would otherwise hold an unbounded number of connections.
When the number of tables exceeds this limit, the sink flushes and closes the least recently used streams, and reopens them on demand.
Set the value to `0` to keep every stream open.

|[[zerobus-recovery]]<<zerobus-recovery, `debezium.sink.zerobus.recovery`>>
|The SDK default.
|Specifies whether the Zerobus SDK recovers a stream that fails with a retriable error by re-sending the records that the service has not acknowledged.

> Because the SDK tracks which records are unacknowledged, recovery re-sends only those, and the sink does not retry the batch itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the SDK tracks which records are unacknowledged, recovery re-sends only those records.
The sink does not retry the entire batch.
```

> An error that recovery cannot resolve still stops the connector, so the offset does not advance past it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the recovery process cannot resolve an error, the connector stops, and the offset does not advance further.
```

|The SDK default.
|Specifies the maximum number of times that the SDK attempts to recover a failed stream.

|[[zerobus-recovery-backoff-ms]]<<zerobus-recovery-backoff-ms, `debezium.sink.zerobus.recovery.backoff.ms`>>
|The SDK default.
|Specifies the delay, in milliseconds, between stream recovery attempts.

|[[zerobus-recovery-timeout-ms]]<<zerobus-recovery-timeout-ms, `debezium.sink.zerobus.recovery.timeout.ms`>>
|The SDK default.
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, after which the SDK abandons a stream recovery attempt.

|[[zerobus-flush-timeout-ms]]<<zerobus-flush-timeout-ms, `debezium.sink.zerobus.flush.timeout.ms`>>
|The SDK default.
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that a flush waits for the records in the stream to be acknowledged.

|[[zerobus-metrics-log-interval]]<<zerobus-metrics-log-interval, `debezium.sink.zerobus.metrics.log.interval`>>
|`0`
|Specifies the number of batches that the service processes before it emits a periodic `INFO` log line to summarize sink metrics.
Set the value to `0` to disable periodic logging.
This setting does not affect availability of metrics over JMX.
For more information, see <<zerobus-monitoring, Monitoring>>.

|===

> The preceding options that default to "The SDK default" are not set unless you configure them, so that the value that applies is the one that the Zerobus SDK version in use defines rather than one that this connector pins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding table, properties that list "The SDK default" as their default value are only set if you add the properties to the configuration.
If you set these properties and omit a value, the property inherits the default value that is associated with the Zerobus SDK version that is in use.
If you do not add a property to the configuration, the sink ignores it.
```
This has me a bit confused. I take it to mean that for a property to be used with the SDK default value, you must explicitly add  the property to the configuration (without a value). Otherwise, the property is ignored an no implied default value is applied.

====== Injection points

The behaviour of the gRPC route can be modified by custom logic that provides an alternative implementation for a specific functionality.
When the alternative implementation is not available, the default one is used.

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Interface
|CDI classifier
|Description

|[[zerobus-ext-sdk]]<<zerobus-ext-sdk, `com.databricks.zerobus.ZerobusSdk`>>
|`@CustomConsumerBuilder`

> |Custom configured instance of a `ZerobusSdk` used to open the streams that carry records to the target tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|A customized instance of a `ZerobusSdk` that is configured for use in opening the streams that carry records to target tables.
```

> By default, the sink builds one from the <<zerobus-endpoint, `endpoint`>> and <<zerobus-workspace-url, `workspace.url`>> options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the sink builds the instance from the <<zerobus-endpoint, `endpoint`>> and <<zerobus-workspace-url, `workspace.url`>> options.
```

|No default value.
|(Optional) The fully-qualified name of the default target table (`catalog.schema.table`).
When this option is set, all events are written to this table; otherwise the mapped destination (topic) name is used as the fully-qualified table name.

|[[zerobus-payload-mode]]<<zerobus-payload-mode, `debezium.sink.zerobus.payload.mode`>>
|`typed`
|Specifies the shape of the row that the sink writes, which is the data contract of the target table.
Set the value to `typed` to map each change event onto the column types of the target table, as <<zerobus-data-type-mapping, Data type mapping>> describes.
Set the value to `envelope` to land the change event as a raw CDC envelope, so that typed materialization occurs downstream of the table.

The two modes are mutually exclusive, because a table is created for one of them.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not apply the `ExtractNewRecordState` SMT when you set the value to `envelope`.
The transformation removes the `op` field of the change event, so the sink cannot determine the operation and records every row with `operation=change`.
Apply only routing transformations, such as `RegexRouter`, in this mode.

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the structure of rows that the sink writes to the target table.

Set one of the following values:

`typed`::
Writes the fields of each change event to columns using the data types of the target table.
For details about how source types map to target column types, see xref:zerobus-data-type-mapping[Data type mapping].

`envelope`::
Writes each change event as a raw CDC envelope.
Use this mode when you want a downstream process to handle type casting and materialization.

The two modes write different schemas to the target table. 
If you change the mode after the target table is created, the sink will fail, because the existing table schema does not match the new mode.

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you set the value to `envelope`, do not apply the `ExtractNewRecordState` SMT. 
This transformation removes the `op` field of the change event, so the sink cannot determine the operation type and records every row with `operation=change`.
Apply only routing transformations, such as `RegexRouter`, in this mode.
====
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in `003a762f3a`. The property now defines `typed` and `envelope` separately, explains when downstream materialization applies, states that the target table schema must match the selected mode, and keeps the `ExtractNewRecordState` restriction with the `envelope` option.

|[[zerobus-record-format]]<<zerobus-record-format, `debezium.sink.zerobus.record.format`>>
|`json`
|Specifies the encoding of a record on the wire.
The `typed` payload mode writes `json`.

> The sink reports an error at start-up if you combine the `typed` mode with the `protobuf` format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the encoding format for that is used to serialize records before they are written to the target table.
Set one of the following values:

 `json`:: Serializes records as JSON. Required when xref:debezium.sink.zerobus.payload.mode[`payload.mode`] is set to `typed`. 
 `protobuf`:: Serializes records as Protocol buffers.
 Do not set this value if `payload.mode` is set to `typed`. 
The sink reports an error at startup if you use this combination.
```
A couple of problems with this description: 
* It does not clearly specify the available options. Or why you might modify the default json setting.
* If the second sentence intends to reference the preceding payload.mode property, it should do so explicitly, via an xref.

Reviewer 2: Addressed in `cf2077d53d`. The property now lists `json` and `protobuf` explicitly, links directly to `payload.mode`, and explains when to select Protobuf: use it with envelope mode when Zerobus should use an explicit Protobuf schema instead of JSON encoding. The start-up rejection for `typed` plus `protobuf` remains explicit.

|[[zerobus-max-inflight]]<<zerobus-max-inflight, `debezium.sink.zerobus.max.inflight.records`>>
|`50000`
|Maximum number of un-acknowledged records per stream.

|[[zerobus-max-open-streams]]<<zerobus-max-open-streams, `debezium.sink.zerobus.max.open.streams`>>
|`100`
|Maximum number of Zerobus streams that the sink keeps open at one time.

> Zerobus binds one stream to one table, so a source that captures many tables would otherwise hold an unbounded number of connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zerobus binds each stream to a single target table, so that a source that captures many tables would otherwise hold an unbounded number of connections.
```
It's not clear whether the beginning of this sentence describes the behavior when no limit is specified; is that what "otherwise" implies in this context? Is the idea that you would set this limit to prevent opening too many connections?

> When the number of tables exceeds this limit, the sink flushes and closes the least recently used streams, and reopens them on demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the number of tables exceeds the specified value, the sink flushes and closes the streams that were opened first, and reopens them on demand.
```

> Set the value to `0` to keep every stream open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the value to `0` to prevent the connector from closing streams.
```

|The SDK default.
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, after which the SDK abandons a stream recovery attempt.

|[[zerobus-flush-timeout-ms]]<<zerobus-flush-timeout-ms, `debezium.sink.zerobus.flush.timeout.ms`>>
|The SDK default.
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that a flush waits for the records in the stream to be acknowledged.

|[[zerobus-metrics-log-interval]]<<zerobus-metrics-log-interval, `debezium.sink.zerobus.metrics.log.interval`>>
|`0`
|Specifies the number of batches that the service processes before it emits a periodic `INFO` log line to summarize sink metrics.
Set the value to `0` to disable periodic logging.
This setting does not affect availability of metrics over JMX.
For more information, see <<zerobus-monitoring, Monitoring>>.

|===

Several properties in the preceding table list "The SDK default" as their default value.
If you do not add such a property to the configuration, the sink does not pass a value for it to the Zerobus SDK, and the default of the SDK version in use applies.
If you add the property and set a value, the sink passes your value instead.

> The sink deliberately avoids pinning these values so that they cannot drift from the SDK across upgrades.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding table, several Zerobus sink properties list the default value `The SDK default`. 
The SDK default is the value defined by the version of the Zerobus SDK that is used by the current {prodname} Server instance.

The SDK default applies only when the property is not specified in the {prodname} Server configuration. If the property is omitted, the sink uses the SDK-defined value, including any changes introduced by later SDK upgrades. 
If you specify a value for the property, the configured value takes precedence.
```

This method accepts only one HTTP request per record.
Select this option for environments that lack a persistent connection.

`kafka`:: Reuses the built-in Kafka sink against the Zerobus Kafka-compatible endpoint.
For more information, see <<zerobus-kafka-route, Kafka route>>.

Because Zerobus accepts only JSON objects that match the target table schema, configure {prodname} to emit flat JSON by applying the {link-prefix}:{link-event-flattening}#new-record-state-extraction[`ExtractNewRecordState` SMT] with `schemas.enable=false`.
Delivery uses an at-least-once guarantee.
As a result, the sink might deliver the same record more than once.
Configure downstream consumers to deduplicate records, for example, by using the source LSN that the record carries.
To enable the service to write data to the target table, the following requirements apply:

* The target table must be a Unity Catalog-managed Delta table.
* The table must be in the same Databricks region as the workspace.
* Change Data Feed and column mapping must be disabled.
* The service principal must have the following permissions:
** `USE CATALOG`
** `USE SCHEMA`
** `SELECT`
** `MODIFY`

> ===== gRPC route (`zerobus`)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== gRPC route (`zerobus`)

The following table describes the properties that control how Zerobus Ingest behaves when it uses gRPC streams to maintain connections between {prodname} and Zerobus endpoints.
```
Adds a mandatory short description for the topic heading.

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[zerobus-type]]<<zerobus-type, `debezium.sink.type`>>
|No default value.
|Must be set to `zerobus`.

|[[zerobus-endpoint]]<<zerobus-endpoint, `debezium.sink.zerobus.endpoint`>>
|No default value.
|The Zerobus gRPC endpoint, for example `<workspace-id>.zerobus.<region>.cloud.databricks.com` (AWS) or `<workspace-id>.zerobus.<region>.azuredatabricks.net` (Azure).

|[[zerobus-workspace-url]]<<zerobus-workspace-url, `debezium.sink.zerobus.workspace.url`>>
|No default value.
|The Databricks workspace URL, for example `https://dbc-xxxx.cloud.databricks.com`.

|[[zerobus-client-id]]<<zerobus-client-id, `debezium.sink.zerobus.client.id`>>
|No default value.
|The OAuth client id (service principal application id).

|[[zerobus-client-secret]]<<zerobus-client-secret, `debezium.sink.zerobus.client.secret`>>
|No default value.
|The OAuth client secret for the service principal.

|[[zerobus-table]]<<zerobus-table, `debezium.sink.zerobus.table`>>
|No default value.

> |(Optional) The fully-qualified name of the default target table (`catalog.schema.table`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|(Optional) The fully qualified name of the default target table (`catalog.schema.table`).
```

> When this option is set, all events are written to this table; otherwise the mapped destination (topic) name is used as the fully-qualified table name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this option is set, all events are written to this table; otherwise the mapped destination (topic) name is used as the fully qualified table name.
```

|`50000`
|Maximum number of un-acknowledged records per stream.

|[[zerobus-max-open-streams]]<<zerobus-max-open-streams, `debezium.sink.zerobus.max.open.streams`>>
|`100`
|Specifies the maximum number of Zerobus streams that the sink keeps open at one time.
Zerobus binds each stream to a single target table, and each stream holds a connection.
Set this property to limit how many connections a source that captures many tables can hold at once.

When the number of open streams exceeds the specified value, the sink flushes and closes the streams that have gone longest without receiving a record, and reopens them on demand when a record for that table arrives.
Set the value to `0` to keep every stream open, so that the sink never closes a stream to stay within a limit.

|[[zerobus-recovery]]<<zerobus-recovery, `debezium.sink.zerobus.recovery`>>
|The SDK default.
|Specifies whether the Zerobus SDK recovers a stream that fails with a retriable error by re-sending the records that the service has not acknowledged.

Because the SDK tracks which records are unacknowledged, recovery re-sends only those records.
The sink does not retry the entire batch.

> If the recovery process cannot resolve an error, the connector stops, and the offset does not advance further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the recovery process cannot resolve an error, the connector stops, and the offset does not advance.
```

For more information, see <<zerobus-monitoring, Monitoring>>.

|===

In the preceding table, several Zerobus sink properties list the default value `The SDK default`.
The SDK default is the value defined by the version of the Zerobus SDK that is used by the current {prodname} Server instance.

The SDK default applies only when the property is not specified in the {prodname} Server configuration.
If the property is omitted, the sink uses the SDK-defined value, including any changes introduced by later SDK upgrades.
If you specify a value for the property, the configured value takes precedence.

[[zerobus-envelope-row-contract]]
====== Envelope row contract

Set <<zerobus-payload-mode, `debezium.sink.zerobus.payload.mode`>> to `envelope` to preserve the change event for downstream materialization instead of mapping it directly onto the target table columns.
The `max.record.bytes`, `json.flexible.fields.encoding`, `idempotency.mode`, `tombstone.handling.mode`, and `filter.*` properties apply only to this payload mode.

JSON and Protobuf envelope records expose the same logical fields:

[cols="25%a,75%a",options="header"]
|===
|Field
|Description

|`target_table`

> |The fully-qualified Unity Catalog table to which the sink routes the record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The fully qualified Unity Catalog table to which the sink routes the record.
```

|`key`
|The original serialized record key.

|`value`
|The original serialized Debezium change-event value.
The value is null for a tombstone.

|`source_position`
|A map containing source partition and offset entries.
Entry names use the `partition.` and `offset.` prefixes.

|`headers`
|The record headers, ordered by header name.
|===

For JSON records, <<zerobus-json-flexible-fields-encoding, `json.flexible.fields.encoding`>> controls whether `key`, `value`, `source_position`, and `headers` are canonical JSON strings or nested JSON values.
For Protobuf records, the sink supplies the descriptor to Zerobus and encodes these flexible fields as canonical JSON strings.

The sink applies configured include filters in the following order: destination, operation, header, and value.
Every configured regular expression must match the complete selected value.
An event that does not match is skipped and is considered processed when the rest of the batch succeeds.
If <<zerobus-filter-operations, `filter.operations`>> is configured, a tombstone is ingested only when the allowlist includes `tombstone`, even if <<zerobus-tombstone-handling-mode, `tombstone.handling.mode`>> is `event`.

> Delivery remains at least once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sink provides an at-least-once delivery guarantee.
```

The sink commits source offsets only after every target-table group in the batch succeeds.
If a later group fails, an earlier acknowledged group can be replayed because the source batch remains uncommitted.
Use `idempotency_key` to deduplicate such replays downstream.

The following example configures the JSON envelope contract, deterministic identities, explicit tombstones, and an operation allowlist:

[source,properties]
----
debezium.sink.type=zerobus
debezium.sink.zerobus.endpoint=<workspace-id>.zerobus.<region>.cloud.databricks.com
debezium.sink.zerobus.workspace.url=https://<workspace-host>
debezium.sink.zerobus.client.id=<client-id>
debezium.sink.zerobus.client.secret=<client-secret>

debezium.sink.zerobus.payload.mode=envelope
debezium.sink.zerobus.record.format=json
debezium.sink.zerobus.max.record.bytes=10000000
debezium.sink.zerobus.json.flexible.fields.encoding=string
debezium.sink.zerobus.idempotency.mode=source
debezium.sink.zerobus.tombstone.handling.mode=event
debezium.sink.zerobus.filter.operations=c,r,u,d,t,m,tombstone
----

====== Injection points

> The behaviour of the gRPC route can be modified by custom logic that provides an alternative implementation for a specific functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The behavior of the gRPC route can be modified by custom logic that provides an alternative implementation for a specific functionality.
```

> When the alternative implementation is not available, the default one is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can modify the behavior of the gRPC route by injecting custom logic that replaces a specific default implementation. 
When no alternative implementation is available, the sink uses the default.
```
Replace passive voice.

|Interface
|CDI classifier
|Description

|[[zerobus-ext-sdk]]<<zerobus-ext-sdk, `com.databricks.zerobus.ZerobusSdk`>>
|`@CustomConsumerBuilder`
|A customized instance of a `ZerobusSdk` that is configured for use in opening the streams that carry records to target tables.
By default, the sink builds the instance from the <<zerobus-endpoint, `endpoint`>> and <<zerobus-workspace-url, `workspace.url`>> options.

|===

===== REST route (`zerobusrest`)

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[zerobusrest-type]]<<zerobusrest-type, `debezium.sink.type`>>
|No default value.
|Must be set to `zerobusrest`.

|[[zerobusrest-uri]]<<zerobusrest-uri, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.uri`>>
|No default value.
|The Zerobus REST base URI, for example `https://<workspace-id>.zerobus.<region>.cloud.databricks.com`.

|[[zerobusrest-workspace-url]]<<zerobusrest-workspace-url, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.workspace.url`>>
|No default value.
|The Databricks workspace URL.
The service uses this value for OAuth and in the `unity-catalog-endpoint` header.

|[[zerobusrest-workspace-id]]<<zerobusrest-workspace-id, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.workspace.id`>>
|No default value.

> |The numeric workspace id, that the service uses to build the Zerobus token audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The numeric workspace ID that the service uses to build the Zerobus token audience.
```

|[[zerobusrest-client-id]]<<zerobusrest-client-id, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.client.id`>>
|No default value.

> |The OAuth client id (service principal application id).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The OAuth client ID (service principal application ID).
```

|[[zerobusrest-client-secret]]<<zerobusrest-client-secret, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.client.secret`>>
|No default value.
|The OAuth client secret for the service principal.

|[[zerobusrest-table]]<<zerobusrest-table, `debezium.sink.zerobusrest.table`>>
|No default value.

> |(Optional) A fully-qualified default target table (`catalog.schema.table`). When not set, the mapped destination (topic) name is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|(Optional) A fully qualified default target table (`catalog.schema.table`). When not set, the mapped destination (topic) name is used.
```

|Must be set to `all`.

|`debezium.sink.kafka.producer.enable.idempotence`
|Must be set to `false`.
Zerobus does not implement the transactional APIs, so it rejects the `InitProducerId` request that the Kafka producer sends when idempotence is enabled.
The producer then fails with `UnsupportedVersionException: The node does not support INIT_PRODUCER_ID`.
Because Kafka clients enable idempotence by default, you must set this property explicitly.

|`debezium.sink.kafka.producer.compression.type`
|Must be set to `none`.
Zerobus rejects compressed record batches.
|===

The `sasl.jaas.config` entry accepts the following options:

[cols="25%a,20%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Required
|Description

|`clientId`
|Yes
|The OAuth client id (service principal application id).

|`clientSecret`
|Yes
|The OAuth client secret for the service principal.

|`workspaceUrl`
|Yes, unless `tokenEndpoint` is set.
|The Databricks workspace URL.
The token endpoint is derived as `<workspaceUrl>/oidc/v1/token`.

|`workspaceId`
|Yes, unless `audience` is set.
|The numeric workspace id.
The token audience is derived as `api://databricks/workspaces/<workspaceId>/zerobusDirectWriteApi`.

|`tables`
|Yes

> |A comma-separated list of fully-qualified target tables (`catalog.schema.table`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|A comma-separated list of fully qualified target tables (`catalog.schema.table`).
```

|`tokenEndpoint`
|No
|Overrides the OIDC token endpoint that is otherwise derived from `workspaceUrl`.

|`audience`
|No
|Overrides the token audience that is otherwise derived from `workspaceId`.

|`token`
|No
|A bearer token, such as a personal access token, to use without modification.
If you set this option, the handler skips the OAuth exchange and uses this token directly.
|===

====== Record format for the Kafka route

Zerobus accepts a record value only if it is a JSON object whose fields match the target Delta table schema.
A record that does not match is rejected with `InvalidRecordException: This record has failed the validation on broker and hence will be rejected`.
To satisfy the requirement, configure the following options in addition to the producer properties:

[cols="55%a,45%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Description

|`debezium.transforms`
|Apply the {link-prefix}:{link-event-flattening}#new-record-state-extraction[`ExtractNewRecordState` SMT] so that the emitted record is a flat row rather than a change event envelope.

> Optionally apply the `RegexRouter` SMT to map the topic name to the fully-qualified name of the target table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally apply the `RegexRouter` SMT to map the topic name to the fully qualified name of the target table.
```

debezium.transforms.unwrap.add.headers=op,source.ts_ms
debezium.transforms.route.type=org.apache.kafka.connect.transforms.RegexRouter
debezium.transforms.route.regex=<topic-prefix>\\.<schema>\\.<table>
debezium.transforms.route.replacement=<catalog>.<schema>.<table>
----

[[zerobus-data-type-mapping]]
===== Data type mapping

When the sink maps data types, rather than converting values based on their serialized JSON representation, it uses Kafka Connect logical type information to normalize values to a format that is compatible with the target Delta column.
By basing conversions on logical types rather than on the JSON encoding of values, the sink can accommodate different source-side serialization settings and avoid invalid-type ingestion errors without requiring users to tune source-side *.handling.mode options.

The following table shows mappings between {prodname} logical types and Delta column types:

[cols="45%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Source / {prodname} logical type
|Delta column type

|Integer, floating point, boolean, string
|`INT`/`BIGINT`, `DOUBLE`/`FLOAT`, `BOOLEAN`, `STRING`

|`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Decimal` (decimal / numeric / money)

> |`DECIMAL(p,s)` &mdash; emitted as an exact string, locale-independent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`DECIMAL(p,s)` Emitted as an exact locale-independent string.
```
Not clear on the usage here. Is the emdash intended to represent a literal part of the column type, or is it used as a separator between the type representation and its definition? AsciiDoc does not use the HTML entity `&mdash`. If you're providing a definiton or description, simply remove the emdash as in my edit and follow the value with a sentence fragment,

|`io.debezium.time.Date` / Connect `Date`
|`DATE` (epoch days)

|`io.debezium.time.Timestamp` / `MicroTimestamp` / `NanoTimestamp` / Connect `Timestamp`
|`TIMESTAMP` or `TIMESTAMP_NTZ` (normalized to epoch micros)

|`io.debezium.time.ZonedTimestamp` (timestamp with time zone)
|`STRING` (ISO-8601 with offset)

|`io.debezium.time.Time` and other time-of-day types
|`BIGINT` (Zerobus does not currently ingest the Delta `TIME` type)

|Bytes / `io.debezium.data.Bits` (binary, blob, varbinary)

> BINARY (encoded as Base64)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|BINARY (encoded as Base64)
```

|`io.debezium.data.Json` (JSON / JSONB)
|`VARIANT`

|Homogeneous array
|`ARRAY<T>`

|===

[[zerobus-monitoring]]
===== Monitoring

> You can use JMX metrics and connector log output to monitor the operational status and performance of the Debezium DataBricks Zero sink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use JMX metrics and connector log output to monitor the operational status and performance of the Debezium Databricks Zerobus Ingest sink.
```

> The {prodname} DataBricks Zero sink supports the following delivery routes: zerobus (gRPC), zerobusrest (REST), and the <<zerobus-kafka-route, Kafka route>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {prodname} Databricks Zerobus Ingest sink supports the following delivery routes: zerobus (gRPC), zerobusrest (REST), and the <<zerobus-kafka-route, Kafka route>>.
```

> All three routes expose sink metrics over JMX under the object name debezium.zerobus:type=connector-metrics,context=sink,server=<route>,task=0, where <route> is `grpc` for the `zerobus` route, `rest` for the `zerobusrest` route, or `kafka` for the Kafka route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All three routes expose sink metrics over JMX under the object name `debezium.zerobus:type=connector-metrics,context=sink,server=<route>,task=0`, where `<route>` is `grpc` for the `zerobus` route, `rest` for the `zerobusrest` route, or `kafka` for the Kafka route.
```

Reading the system clock is significantly more expensive when the producer's network thread reads it concurrently, and on a high-volume pipeline that cost outweighs everything else the interceptor does.
The first record is always timed, so the gauges report a value even on a pipeline that produces few records.
All counters remain exact.
====
The standard `kafka.producer:type=producer-metrics` and `kafka.producer:type=producer-topic-metrics` MBeans remain available, and provide per-topic byte counts and request latencies that complement the sink metrics.

The following attributes are available:

[cols="40%a,60%a",options="header"]
|===
|Attribute
|Description

|`TotalRecordsIngested`
|Total number of change events that Zerobus durably accepted, across all tables.
On the gRPC route the sink counts a record only after the flush that covers it succeeds, so a batch that fails to flush never advances this metric.

|`TotalInserts` / `TotalUpdates` / `TotalDeletes` / `TotalReads`
|These metrics report the number of ingested events sorted by operation type (`c` / `u` / `d`, and snapshot reads `r`).

|`TotalRecordsSkipped`

> |Number of records skipped without being forwarded (tombstones / null payloads, and events whose destination is not a fully-qualified `catalog.schema.table`, such as schema-history or DDL events).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Number of records skipped without being forwarded (tombstones / null payloads, and events whose destination is not a fully qualified `catalog.schema.table`, such as schema-history or DDL events).
```

The value remains `0` on the Kafka route, which forwards every record that it receives.

|`TotalErrors`
|Number of ingestion or flush failures observed.

|`TotalFlushes`
|The metric counts one of the following operations, depending on the route configuration:

* Stream flush operations (gRPC route).
* Successful record POST requests (REST route).
* Broker-acknowledged records (Kafka route).

For the REST and Kafka routes, a successful POST or acknowledgement indicates that the record has been durably accepted and is no longer at risk of loss due to a service failure.

|`MilliSecondsBehindSource`
|Indicates the age, in milliseconds, of the most recently processed event.
The value is calculated as `current time - source.ts_ms`.

> The metric reports the value  `-1 ` until after the Delta table ingests an event that contains a source timestamp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The metric reports the value `-1` until after the Delta table ingests an event that contains a source timestamp.
```

> A values near `0` indicates that the sink is catching up to, or is synchronized with, the source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Values near `0` indicate that the sink is catching up to, or is synchronized with, the source.
```

This metric is a primary indicator of pipeline freshness in a CDC-to-lakehouse deployment.

|`MilliSecondsSinceLastEvent`
|Indicates the time that elapsed since the sink last forwarded an event.
The metric reports the value `-1` until the sink forwards the first event.

Use this metric together with `MilliSecondsBehindSource`.
Because `MilliSecondsBehindSource` reports the age of the last event that the sink processed, its value stops changing if the pipeline stops, and, as a result, an idle source cannot be distinguished from a stalled sink.
By contrast, if the value of `MilliSecondsSinceLastEvent` grows while the source database is known to be receiving writes, the pipeline is stalled.

> |LastFlushDurationMillis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`LastFlushDurationMillis`
```

|Duration of the most recent flush (gRPC), record POST (REST), or broker acknowledgement (Kafka) operation.
On the Kafka route the value describes a sampled subset of records rather than every record, as the following note describes.

> |MaxFlushDurationMillis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`MaxFlushDurationMillis`
```
